PROCEDURAL AND OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING:

Object-oriented programming (OOP) is a programming paradigm based on the concept of "objects," which can contain data in the form of fields (attributes) and code in the form of procedures (methods).
 This approach focuses on the objects that developers want to manipulate rather than the logic required to manipulate them, making it well-suited for large, complex, and actively maintained software. 
The Four Pillars of OOP
These fundamental principles are used across almost all object-oriented languages to organize and secure code: 
Encapsulation: Bundles data and methods into a single unit (a class) and restricts direct access to some of the object's components. This protects data integrity and is often referred to as "data hiding." 

Abstraction: Hides complex internal implementation details and only reveals essential features. For example, a driver interacts with a car’s pedals and steering wheel without needing to understand how the engine works internally. 

Inheritance: Allows a new class (subclass) to acquire properties and behaviors from an existing class (superclass). This promotes code reusability and establishes a natural hierarchy. 

Polymorphism: The ability for different classes to be treated as instances of the same parent class through a single interface. For instance, a single "draw" method can behave differently whether it's drawing a circle or a square. 

Core Building Blocks
Classes: The blueprint or template for creating objects. You can learn more about defining them in W3Schools' C++ OOP Tutorial.
Objects: Specific instances of a class created with actual data. For example, if "Car" is a class, "myToyota" is an object.
Methods: Functions defined inside a class that describe the behaviors of an object.
Attributes : Variables that define the state or characteristics of an object. 

TOKEN: The smallest unit of a program

divided into 5 types:
1)Identifiers: var,functioon,class name, module name,package name
2)Literal: all data types (int,float,string,boolean,list,tupple)
3)Keywords: predefined words (if else,for,from)
4)operations: +,-,>=,<=
5)special characters:,!
 n=10
 if n%2==0:
    print("Even")
 else:
    print("odd")

n-variable
= - operation
10 - literal
n- variable

COMMENTS: improves the code readability
# - single line comment
''' -multiple line comments
STATEMENT: single line of code
list, set. dictionary ----mutable 
tupple--- ordered immutable fixed data
list-----mutable different data






